Subtitles by DramaFever
[Andante]
Why wouldn't I be able to earn money?
I'm selling exam questions...
Anyway, I'll take care of everything.
Just consider me dead already.
[Episode 9: You Are My Spring]
Is it okay for him to continue studying?
It is too much for him,
but there are terminal patients like him.
It's hard to understand, right?
Anyway, good work you two.
Bye now.
We'll be late for school.
Want to study all night
at my house tonight?
Oh, are you finally coming out?
I don't have the confidence
to finish up my studies.
Sure.
Mom won't think it's weird
if Shi Kyung studies with us.
Okay. Let's hurry up.
- Are we late?
- Yeah.
- Oh no.
- Let's run.
Dad, do you know where I'm going today?
Mom won't allow me to go if I tell her.
So, I'm going to tell her
I'm sleeping over at Ga Ram's.
Should I tell Ga Ram about it or not,
if I want to get away with this?
- Hey, Lee Shi Kyung!
- I'm going.
You're always late,
and you still haven't left yet?
Yeah, I shouldn't tell him.
I agree.
Ga Ram has a bit of a big mouth.
Okay, so I won't tell him then.
Wait!
Try to get in.
Teacher, I'm curious about something.
- My grade for the ethics assessment...
- What about it?
Why did I get a zero?
I gave an answer that day.
I shouldn't get a zero
if I gave an answer.
I'm asking a question
regarding my studies.
- Amazing.
- Take the test again if you want.
Teacher!
We're late because we had
to take a patient to the hospice.
Why are you here?
You're late again?
You're late too, Trash.
- Hurry up and get inside.
- Thank you.
Teacher!
Move.
I'm not telling you.
Don't be that way. Tell me.
Was Shi Kyung that bad?
It wasn't that.
It was the exact opposite.
Then why did he get zero?
I'm not going to tell you
if you're going to argue with me.
No, I'm not arguing with you.
I'm just curious.
If he was the opposite of bad,
that means he was pretty good.
Why did he get zero?
About Shi Kyung...
he's very creative, but too emotional.
I think he is right-brained
and not left-brained.
Is being emotional a bad thing?
You're arguing with me, aren't you?
Forget it if you're going
to be like that.
No, no, no.
I'm not saying you're wrong.
Continue speaking, please.
So... I think Lee Shi Kyung
has some potential.
I'm working on him, so just know that.
Wait.
So, he's trying to convince him?
Mom, I'm going.
I'll call you from Ga Ram's house.
Shi Kyung, take this.
Eat this while
you're studying with Ga Ram.
Okay, I will.
Will it be just you and Ga Ram?
What?
Well...
you know my friend Bong Gu?
He'll be there too.
I'm only letting you go
because it's Ga Ram.
Okay, I'm leaving now.
Mom.
Ga Ram.
I want to study all night here
with Ga Ram.
Shi Kyung can study too.
That's okay, right?
I thought you were going
to Ga Ram's house.
What?
Oh. Seriously, Dad?
I thought I would get away with it
if I didn't tell Ga Ram about it!
What is this?
Yeah... study hard.
I'm sorry.
Where are you going?
Can't I even go to the bathroom?
Here you go.
Have some snacks. You're hungry, right?
Where's Shi Kyung?
He said he was going to the bathroom.
What's taking him so long?
What are you talking about?
Your aunt is in the bathroom.
He ran off. He ran away.
Oh, seriously!
You're here?
What about your dad?
He'll meet us there. Let's go.
I couldn't bring anything
because I was in a rush.
It's okay.
We just need to take the bus for a bit.
Let's go.
He's not picking up.
Where could he have possibly gone?
Why is it so noisy in here?
I thought the kids were studying.
Shi Kyung ran away.
Ran away? Where to and who with?
Does Shi Kyung have a friend
named Bong Gu?
Bong Gu? No.
There's no one named
Bong Gu in our class.
He went to see Bom. It's Bom.
Where could he have gone
this late at night?
He is just like his father.
What do you mean by that?
When Shi Yoon was Shi Kyung's age,
he ran off one night with some girl.
I was so upset about it.
Shi Kyung's dad had
a girlfriend in high school?
There was a girl
he couldn't live without.
Later, she transferred
to Seoul or some place.
When I see Shi Kyung and Bom,
I'm reminded of her.
Are you sure you're not mistaken?
I've never heard that story before.
You're mistaken in thinking
you know everything about Shi Yoon.
How could you know more than his mother?
Leave him be.
When kids are like this...
their mother's words are like
the bark of a passing dog.
Besides, you have to set a good example
if you want your kids to listen.
Mother!
Your dad's not here yet?
Sit down.
- Me?
- Yes.
It suits you.
Does it?
I feel awkward.
I've never gone fishing before.
That was always my dad's seat.
He's running very late.
My dad isn't coming.
Actually, he can't come.
He died a long time ago
in the hospice in this town.
What?
Why would you make up a lie like that?
A lot of people
don't have dads, so why...
I came to this neighborhood alone.
This is the place where my dad spent
his last days, so that's why I came here.
My dad passed away in the hospice.
My mom remarried and grew tired of me.
I live here alone.
I couldn't go around saying that.
You could say nothing.
I did say nothing.
If I hadn't met you...
I wouldn't have said anything to anyone.
I look so shabby compared to you.
Family and friends...
you have so many people around you.
Whenever I saw you
around all those people...
I envied you, and I was afraid too.
I thought you might not like me
if you knew who I was.
Have you ever lived alone before?
Do you know how it feels to have
no one in the world protecting you?
Why did I lie?
Why did I survive like that?
I'm not asking you to understand me.
Just do as your heart leads you.
Other than my dad...
you're the first person.
You worried about me and
told me not to do something.
You approached me carefully,
and warmly held my hand.
That's why I'm telling you all of this.
I prefer to hide my true self.
But, I'm showing myself.
Dad!
We told him going outside
with anemia was dangerous.
- Prepare the transfusion.
- Okay.
I thought you were at Shi Kyung's.
It didn't work out that way.
What happened?
He tried to go to Seoul.
He fainted and was brought back here.
There are no nurses to watch him,
so I'm worried about him.
He should be okay, right?
We can stay with him tonight.
What?
We were planning on staying up
all night in your office anyway.
All right. Okay, then.
What are you doing here?
You passed out.
They said someone needed to be here.
Get out.
Get lost.
Aren't you being a bit harsh?
Lee Shi Young.
I was holding back because you're sick.
Do you think we want to be here?
You could try saying thank...
Put my box back, and get lost.
Hey, is something wrong?
How could we not catch
a single fish all night?
It's strange. Dad used to catch a lot.
You know... I don't know
if I've ever stayed out this late.
What's your dream?
- Dream?
- Yes.
Not the job you want, but your dream.
When people ask about one's dream,
kids confuse that with a job.
I've never thought about it,
and I'm not good at anything.
Ah... going to the Grand Canyon.
I thought it was really funny when the
vice-principal told me collect cacti.
Lately, I have these thoughts in my mind.
What would it be like
to visit the Grand Canyon?
It would be nice to go together.
Let's go together!
I'll work hard to collect them.
I'll voluntarily buy some
and earn double points.
I think I know what you're good at.
What's that?
It's a secret. I'll tell you later.
I just thought of your tombstone
inscription right at this moment.
Really? What is it?
It's a secret. I'll tell you later.
Don't cheat on it.
I'm going to.
I've got something. I've got one!
- What should I do?
- Reel it in.
- Grab it.
- What do I do? How?
- You have to grab it.
- It's too strong!
- It's not working.
- Use your strength!
What kind of fish is that strong?
Is it a shark or something?
Why would there be a shark here?
It's getting away!
Wow!
You're the unlucky, first fish
I've ever caught!
Give it to your grandma.
Thank her for pricking my finger.
Your grandma pricked my finger for me
at the hospice when I was younger.
Oh, really?
She always gave me piggyback rides
and held me when she saw me.
She did that for many children,
so she may not remember me.
But, I remember her.
I'm so happy that she turned out
to be your grandma.
You are my spring.
(Bom means spring in Korean)
That's what I would write
for your tombstone inscription.
You are my spring.
You!
Hey! Stand right there.
Stop!
Hey, get back here.
You must take after your dad
doing something like this.
Hey, stop! Hey, hey!
Stop right there.
As for the next semester's
hospice volunteer dates...
Ms. Oh, you look pretty.
You're looking brighter every day.
Does it suit me?
It looks great.
Someone suggested
a detailed guideline for me.
Really? Who was that?
Me?
Ms. Oh, is this your first time
proctoring an exam?
- Yes.
- You can overlook some things.
But, you must catch cheaters.
[Write "Republic of Korea"
in Chinese characters.]
[Repub]
(Written in Chinese)
[Republic of Korea]
(Written in Korean)
A human trait that AI cannot do...
This is supposed to be a discussion,
so how can I do it alone?
Then, you will get a zero.
At some point in his life,
every man's quandary...
It is that he feels at odds with himself.
Keep going.
Wondering what I'm good at?
What is my dream?
How do others perceive me?
[Gaon Hospice]
His back wages?
He worked all night in between his
studies, and the boss refuses to pay him.
It's too much.
It's because he's in a hospice, right?
I think so.
Isn't there any way we can help him?
Earlier, at the library...
What?
I heard him say that he would
memorize the exam questions.
Then sell them
to private academies for money.
What?
What can we do by going there?
That's what we should look into now.
I don't know. Will we be much help?
I'll go with you.
Though, I don't know what I can do.
Then, I'll show you the way in Seoul.
You don't have to go.
There's nothing wrong with staying.
You should only go if you want to.
I'll come and hold a picket, at least.
A picket for me too.
I'll hold a picket too and wear a mask.
Picket one here.
- Picket two.
- Picket three.
- How about you, Shi Young?
- I'll come.
We shouldn't tell anyone about this,
not even the patient.
- Why?
- We don't know how it'll turn out.
Shi Kyung's right about that.
The more people we have the better.
So, we've all decided to go
meet his boss in person.
And you want me to come too?
Yes, come with us.
Back in junior high,
you couldn't stand seeing injustice.
Have you gone crazy too,
hanging around that crazy punk?
Eom Yong Gi.
What brings you here?
Did you... want to say something to me?
Choose one of the two.
- What is it? I need to know...
- Just choose one.
Just choose one.
Oh! It's a circle.
What does it mean?
Does a circle mean something good?
That I don't know.
[Pay his wages!] [Corrupt Boss]
[Corrupt Business] [Why did you do it?]
[Back wages...]
Aren't you kids hungry? Go out and eat.
We aren't leaving until
you pay his back wages.
I am not the owner of this place!
I'm just an employee here
like Moon whatever guy.
What do you expect me to do?
We never told you
his last name was Moon.
We just said he was
a part-time employee.
Just be quiet!
You can live here for all I care.
I could report you all
for obstructing my business.
Where did you country bumpkins
crawl in from anyway?
Mister, do you think we don't know you're
doing this because he's in a hospice?
What kind of adult are you?
You little...
You better be quiet!
Now, who are you?
Look at you. You've seen
a lot TV dramas, huh?
Is this real gas? It's water, right?
Light it.
Try lighting it!
I don't think I can hold back any longer.
Here.
This is real gas here.
- Should we all die together?
- Whoa!
Huh? Huh?
Huh?
I told you the owner isn't here.
Do my words seem empty to you?
Who do you think you all are?
Are you prosecutors? Are you cops?
You are nothing but
a bunch of little kids.
Have you no fear?
Huh!
We're here, Boss.
Yes, this is our district.
Yes, I know the owner very well.
Should we screw him over?
Well, I...
Don't be too rough.
Just get the back wages right away.
Yes, he's very corrupt.
There are many bad rumors about him.
I'll use this opportunity
to stomp him out.
You can sort that out.
Once the money has been
deposited, I'm out of it.
All right, Boss.
Yes, goodbye, Boss.
How much was it?
You know the bank, right?
- The bank account number...
- 526-04-418643.
The wifi...
It's working.
Don't stress me out.
The bank account number...
525-04-418643.
Don't stress me out.
The wifi...
It's working.
It has been deposited. I confirmed it.
Take a look at your account.
[DF Ver] E09 Andante "You Are My Spring"
-= Ruo Xi =-
You may be my spring...
But, all of us...
can be someone's warm spring.
You want to donate a bathing machine?
Yes.
I heard there was a bathing machine
that makes it easier for patients.
The doctor mentioned it.
- That is...
- I find bathing most difficult, too.
Please accept it.
- Still, no.
- I have always...
only ever thought of myself.
I only studied for my own benefit.
I want to give a little
something back to others.
Everyone will be so happy.
I can just picture it.
Oh yeah.
My son wanted me to ask you something.
The orange...
why do you always carry one?
Because it has a lot of vitamin C.
I always wanted a good seat in class.
So, I would study on top of a box
early in the morning in the streets.
I would always take an orange
back with me.
They said vitamin C was good for fatigue.
I can't even eat it now.
It's just a habit.
Thank you.
What for? I'm the one who's thankful.
I can take baths easily now.
Ah, I feel like a human being now.
What?
- Buy one, get one free?
- Yes.
If I collect 10...
will you send me
to the Grand Canyon with Bom?
- Agreed.
- You agree?
Yes!
Lee Shi Kyung, what is this?
You call this a report card?
Hey! Get back here.
You little punk. Hey!
Hey, stop right there!
Mom, I'm sorry!
Just wait until you get back here!
Seriously!
Why is it so complicated?
It wasn't like this when
Shi Yoon was in school.
Look here, Grandma.
This is the class ranking.
Each class has different grades.
19th... 19th in this one too.
19th in all of them.
Isn't 19th somewhere in the middle?
Back when Shi Yoon was
in school, 19th was average.
Classes had over 60 students back then.
They're much smaller now.
How many people are in Shi Kyung's class?
20 people, Grandma. 20 people.
What?
Shi Kyung is 19th out of 20 people?
Oh, that kid!
When I was younger,
I used to ride this swing with my dad.
- How about you?
- Me?
I don't remember doing
anything with my dad.
Weren't you close with your dad?
I don't know.
I don't even remember
if we were close or not.
Is that even possible?
Should you get your head examined?
I know, right?
I wish I could remove
my brain and examine it.
What is in my head?
Should I ask the stars?
Even Lee Shi Young can study,
so why can't I do it?
So... what am I good at?
Moon Sung Joon! You little rascal.
You ran out on your dad
and younger sibling.
You cut off all contact with us
to live on your own
only to end up lying here in this state?
Father.
Sung Joon... Sung Joon.
Sung Joon's father?
Sung Joon's getting worse,
so the hospice contacted his father.
Is he becoming very sick?
He's holding on
because of the painkillers.
He's finally getting to see his dad
but he's probably in too much
pain to even talk to him.
- That's too bad.
- I know.
If he had come when Sung Joon
was heroic and feeling stronger
his father would have been
touched and very happy.
I wish I could be happy and
touched by something you do.
Bong Gu, hold on.
Bong Gu, yeah right.
Bom, I have to talk to Shi Kyung.
You can talk to him later.
Mom, how did you know Bong Gu was Bom?
That code word is just on your level.
When Mom sits down in front of me,
it means there's a long battle ahead.
Lee Shi Kyung, you get involved in
other people's problems all the time.
Why can't you take care of yourself?
Even I'm studying late at night
to get my nursing certification.
What's wrong with you?
Aren't you concerned about your future?
Dad, are you out there?
- Save me if you are.
- Answer me.
Eom Yong Gi.
Go to the counseling office after class.
Why...
Are you disappointed that it's me?
No, I thought it was my homeroom
teacher who called me in here.
I asked your homeroom teacher
to call you in here for me.
Why? Are you going to say
something weird to me like before?
That was my first time.
I was scared and new to things,
so I made a mistake.
What about now?
You're used to things and not scared.
- Right.
- How are you now?
You are so lovely.
- What is this?
- It's a prize.
You are so lovely when you sing,
so I'm giving you this prize.
We're heading out now.
I think I know who our
school's second couple will be.
Who?
- Ga Ram and Shi Young.
- What?
I've been suspicious of them for a while.
You haven't noticed?
You're Shi Young's brother.
Of course not. They're not
in that kind of relationship.
If it's not that, what is it?
A relationship like the one
I have with Shi Young.
No, it's more like an owner and his dog.
- What are you saying?
- Hey.
How can Lee Shi Young
look like a girl to you?
She's like a puppy to Ga Ram.
A puppy you just want to take care of.
What? I think Shi Young is cute.
She's very sassy and cute.
Sassy and cute? Shi Young?
Oh, oh, oh!
Are you okay, Shi Young?
I told you to hold on, so I
wouldn't fall. Why didn't you hold on?
I thought you would be able to ride it.
This is how people learn how to ride
a bike. It's how my dad taught me.
Are you my dad?
My dad wouldn't have done what you did.
He would have made sure
that I wouldn't fall.
I doubt that.
Your dad would have done what I did.
There's no other way to teach
a child how to ride a bike.
Now that I think about it, I resented
my dad a lot whenever I would fall.
I guess we have to resent our dads
when learning how to ride a bike.
Hello.
This is where my Sung Joon studied?
Yes, I heard he studied here
until he became sick.
In that state...
he came here and studied?
Many kids in our class probably received
help from Sung Joon during exams.
Not me, of course.
Oh yeah.
Did you know Sung Joon donated
a bathing machine to this hospice?
My Sung Joon?
[Effort will not betray you!]
[Passing the civil servant exam
is the path to life!]
You lived so hard on your own.
Look at you now, huh?
Where did all that spirit go?
You just sleep there so weakly.
Excuse me, Nurse.
Has something happened to my Sung Joon?
He sleeps all day long.
It seems very strange.
It's because of the medication.
He's in severe pain, so he has been
prescribed painkillers.
Don't forget to give them to him
three times a day.
What? Donate your eyes?
You've been passed out this entire time.
Now that you're finally awake
you're telling me you want
to donate your eyes?
I would like to donate my other organs.
The only organs a cancer patient
can donate are the eyes.
How will your spirit find its way
to your sacrificial rites without eyes?
Don't do those when I die.
What?
I don't want you
to go through a hard time.
If you care about your father,
why would you plan your death?
Is this something you say to your father?
Don't ever talk about organ donation
in front of me again.
Have you already discussed it
with the hospice?
- I haven't.
- Are you sure?
This won't do.
I have to go and check for myself.
Shi Kyung...
Please cancel it!
What are you referring to?
If my son said he wants to donate
his eyes, please disregard that.
Did Moon Sung Joon agree
to donate his eyes?
No, this is the first
I've heard about it.
He did ask me which organs
he could possibly donate.
I told him.
I can see that nothing
has been confirmed.
Yes, it seems your son intends to donate.
He hasn't submitted any paperwork.
With organ donation,
the patient's intent is important.
But, the guardian's consent
is needed as well.
Then, I don't need to worry.
But, I'll say it once more just in case.
Sung Joon will not be donating his eyes!
Sung Joon, hold on a little longer.
I'll call the doctor for you.
I called you over because
I have a favor to ask you.
A favor?
Can you hold on to this for me?
It's weird.
What is?
The first person I met at this hospice...
was a soldier who asked me
to deliver a letter for him.
Next, it was Grandma Oh Bong Sook
and now Sung Joon.
Why do people always want
to give me something when they see me?
It's one of your positive attributes.
Positive attributes? What do you mean?
Listening and fulfilling
people's favor requests?
Like a pushover?
I suppose you could look at it that way.
I really don't like that.
My mom will find out if that trash knows.
Hey, what is it that I can't know?
- Move, this is my seat.
- Go somewhere else.
I can't focus if I don't sit
where I always sit.
That's a pretty scarf.
Ga Ram gave it to me.
It doesn't look new.
It belonged to Ga Ram's mom.
No wonder it's so pretty.
I love worn-down clothes.
Jung Soo, have you seen my scarf?
What scarf?
That red scarf I wear all the time.
The one you bought from
that cart in front of our cafe?
Yes.
I was going to wear a bright color
for once, but I can't find it.
You must have thrown it out
when we moved.
You think so?
It was quite worn out,
so it was time to it throw out.
What is it?
You said you like worn-down things.
This is my mom's oldest,
most worn-down scarf.
It is?
Look here.
It's totally worn out.
Do you like it?
Yes, I like it.
Then, I'll put it on you.
How does it look? Does it suit me?
Yes.
Let's take a picture,
so we can remember this.
You're here?
Grandma!
Hello.
Why have you come empty-handed?
Grandpa Won Ho is being
placed in his coffin today.
You were supposed
to bring burial clothes.
That's odd.
I'm sure I had it
in my hands when I left.
Did you leave it at home?
You never forget anything.
This is so unlike you.
When are you placing him in the coffin?
In about an hour.
I'll go home and come back quickly.
Grandma, I'll go with you.
Huh?
Ghosts must be playing tricks on me.
It's not in the room?
No, it's not.
I made it for Grandpa Won Ho.
I remember wrapping it up nicely
and bringing it out with me.
Oh, Grandma!
Isn't this it?
There it is! Oh...
Oh, but why was it over here?
You're in a lot pain, right? I know.
You have to endure it.
Honestly, I had given up
when I first came here.
But... I saw what you
posted on your wall.
I saw those, and I changed my mind.
With that mindset,
you can live, Moon Sung Joon.
Do you really believe that I can live?
Of course.
You must have seen news here and there
about terminal
cancer patients who survive.
We'll fight until the end.
I won't give up,
so don't you give up either.
Why don't you eat some now
to help regain your strength?
I've looked into this and that.
Apparently, your fitness
is important when fighting cancer.
Mom.
What kind of medicine is this?
I don't know.
Give it to me.
They're painkillers.
- Painkillers?
- Yes.
They are painkillers in pill form,
instead of an injection.
Why do you ask?
Why aren't you saying anything?
Where did you get these?
I found these in Sung Joon's trash can.
What? His trash can?
[Various Types of Cancer
and Treatments for Them]
Excuse me. Are you Sung Joon's father?
Yes, I am.
My son found these
while emptying the trash can.
I assume you accidentally
threw these away.
Since you can't use these,
you'll have to get some more.
Thank you for being
so kind and telling me.
- It was not an accident.
- Excuse me?
What do you mean it was not an accident?
I threw them out on purpose.
Did you know what you
were throwing out?
The nurse said they are painkillers.
You knew it so how...
Without this medicine,
Sung Joon will have a hard time.
Who are you, Lady?
Me?
That's not what's important.
Thank you for your concern.
But, I'm going to take care of my son.
Yes, but why did you
throw out these painkillers?
Painkillers are addictive drugs.
I can't have my son
turn into a drug addict.
Sung Joon looks like
he's suffering so much.
I guess you can't see that.
Who says I can't see that!
Do you think I don't know
that my son is sick?
I'm doing this to heal my son!
I'll try and convince him.
Just maintain some restraint.
Sung Joon's father needs to know
how bad the pain is
for terminal cancer patients.
It seemed as though he was aware.
How could he not know
when he's with Sung Joon?
I don't know why he came here
if he was going to act this way.
Don't terminal cancer patients
come to a hospice for pain relief?
We are trying to keep him as
comfortable as possible until he dies.
Why is he rejecting our treatment?
Chief Nurse, you're getting angry again.
You're thinking about
Jin Young's father, aren't you?
Jin Young's father?
Yes.
He passed away earlier this year.
Like Sung Joon, his father also said
he would become addicted to painkillers.
He refused to let him take them.
So, what happened?
Jin Young suffered in pain until the end.
Jin Young's father regretted
his decision in the end.
Oh, how terrible.
Oh, then...
what if we tell Sung Joon's father
about Jin Young?
It would be useless.
This isn't about the painkillers.
It's about whether or not he can
accept his son's imminent death.
Sung Joon's father can't accept
his son's death right now.
You want to secretly sneak in
painkillers to Sung Joon?
Yes, I thought about it.
I think that's the only way
to help Sung Joon.
Okay, when are you going to do it?
He must be sleeping.
I'll check and see.
Is he asleep?
I can't tell.
What if his dad suddenly comes out
while we're in here?
- Strange...
- Why?
- I don't hear anything.
- Huh?
He was discharged?
Yes.
They did the paperwork
yesterday and left.
That shouldn't have happened.
We had this made for him, too.
[Civil Servant ID]
We were going to give him
this gift before he left.
Where did Sung Joon go?
To a temple near the hospice.
A temple?
Oh! Four ones?
It's four signals from Sung Joon.
I have to go to Sung Joon.
I have no time.
- Where are you going, Shi Kyung?
- To Sung Joon!
It's the vice-principal.
I can't get caught.
Lee Shi Kyung!
You must not want to go to the
Grand Canyon with Bom anymore.
No, I still plan to go.
- How?
- I'm going to add a cactus.
Really?
What kind of cactus will it be this time?
I'll tell you next time. I'm a bit busy.
Oh! He's an even bigger obstacle.
I have to get out of here.
Subtitles by DramaFever
[Andante]